= FF7/Kernel/Kernel.bin =

==  Important Files  ==

{| style="border: 1px solid black; border-collapse: collapse; background: rgb(0,100,0)" border="1" cellspacing="1" cellpadding="3" align="center"
! align="center" | PSX Version
! align="center" | PC Version
|-
| /INIT/KERNEL.BIN
| /DATA/KERNEL/KERNEL.BIN
|-
|
| /DATA/KERNEL/KERNEL2.BIN
|}

==  The KERNEL.BIN Archive  ==

The file KERNEL.BIN archive is in [[FF7/Kernel/Low_level_libraries#BIN-GZIP_Type_Archives|BIN-GZIP format]]. It consists of 27 gziped sections concatenated together with a 6 byte header for each. This file is the same both on the PC and PSX versions. This holds all the static data and menu text for the game, with a look up table at the beginning of the section. The first 9 sections of data (i.e. The non-text related items) are in typical BIN file archive format. Sections 10-27 are [[FF7/FF_Text|FF Text files]]. The text sections have a header of pointers at the beginning of each section and point to a text block below.

The KERNEL.BIN file consists of the following sections.

{| class="wikitable"
! File
! Data
! Offset
|-
| align="center" | 1
|
[[FF7/Command_data|Command data]]
| 0x0006
|-
| align="center" | 2
|
[[FF7/Attack_data|Attack data]]
| 0x0086
|-
| align="center" | 3
|
[[FF7/Battle_and_growth_data|Battle and growth data]]
| 0x063A
|-
| align="center" | 4
|
[[FF7/Character_starting_stats|Initialization data]]
| 0x0F7F
|-
| align="center" | 5
|
[[FF7/Item_data|Item data]]
| 0x111B
|-
| align="center" | 6
|
[[FF7/Weapon_data|Weapon data]]
| 0x137A
|-
| align="center" | 7
|
[[FF7/Armor_data|Armor data]]
| 0x1A30
|-
| align="center" | 8
|
[[FF7/Accessory_data|Accessory data]]
| 0x1B73
|-
| align="center" | 9
|
[[FF7/Materia_data|Materia data]]
| 0x1C11
|-
| align="center" | 10
| Command descriptions
| 0x1F32
|-
| align="center" | 11
| Magic descriptions
| 0x2199
|-
| align="center" | 12
| Item descriptions
| 0x28D4
|-
| align="center" | 13
| Weapon descriptions
| 0x2EE2
|-
| align="center" | 14
| Armor descriptions
| 0x307B
|-
| align="center" | 15
| Accessory descriptions
| 0x315F
|-
| align="center" | 16
| Materia descriptions
| 0x3384
|-
| align="center" | 17
| Key Item descriptions
| 0x3838
|-
| align="center" | 18
| Command Names
| 0x3BE2
|-
| align="center" | 19
| Magic Names
| 0x3CCA
|-
| align="center" | 20
| Item Names
| 0x4293
|-
| align="center" | 21
| Weapon Names
| 0x4651
|-
| align="center" | 22
| Armor Names
| 0x4B02
|-
| align="center" | 23
| Accessory Names
| 0x4C4B
|-
| align="center" | 24
| Materia Names
| 0x4D90
|-
| align="center" | 25
| Key Item Names
| 0x5040
|-
| align="center" | 26
| Battle and Battle-Screen Text
| 0x5217
|-
| align="center" | 27
| Summon Attack Names
| 0x5692
|}

==  The KERNEL2.BIN Archive  ==

On the PC version there exists a secondary kernel archive called KERNEL2.BIN. This archive contains only sections 10-27 (Text data) of KERNEL.BIN. The data was ungzipped from the original archive, concatenated together, and then LZSed into a single archive with a 4 byte header giving the length of the file.

The maximum allotted storage space on the PC version for all un-LZSed data in the kernel2.bin is 27KB (27648 bytes). This means that the total size of the extracted files (text and pointers) must be less than this.